Preface
Python Feature Engineering Cookbook, covers almost every aspect of feature engineering for tabular
data, including missing data imputation, categorical encoding, variable transformation, discretization,
scaling, and the handling of outliers. It also discusses how to extract features from date and time, text,
time series, and relational datasets.
This book will take the pain out of feature engineering by showing you how to use open source
Python libraries to accelerate the feature engineering process, via multiple practical, hands-on recipes.
Throughout the book, you will transform and create new variables utilizing pandas and scikitlearn. Additionally, you'll learn to leverage the power of four major open source feature engineering
libraries - Feature-engine, Category Encoders, Featuretools, and tsfresh.
You'll also discover additional recipes that weren't in the second edition. These cover imputing
missing data in time series, creating new features with decision trees, and highlighting outliers using
the median absolute deviation. More importantly, we provide guidelines to help you decide which
transformations to use, based on your model and data features. You'll know exactly what, why, and
how to implement each feature transformation.
Who this book is for
This book is for machine learning and data science students and professionals, as well as software
engineers involved in deploying machine learning models, who seek to enhance their skills in data
transformation and feature creation for improved model training. It is designed for anyone interested
in or currently engaged in feature engineering, providing clear guidance on what to do, how to do it,
and why it matters. This resource goes beyond basic knowledge, offering practical insights and detailed
explanations to help you master feature engineering effectively.
What this book covers
Chapter 1, Imputing Missing Data, explores techniques to replace missing values with suitable estimates
for numerical, categorical, and time series data. It covers both single and multiple imputation methods
and demonstrates how to streamline the imputation process using scikit-learn and Feature-engine.
