Preface
xvi
Chapter 2, Encoding Categorical Variables, covers methods to transform categorical variables into
numerical features. It begins with common techniques such as one-hot and ordinal encoding and
then explores adaptations for high cardinality and linear models. The chapter also discusses domainspecific methods, such as weight of evidence, and demonstrates how to encode highly cardinal variables
using methods such as target encoding, ensuring that you understand how to regularize the process
to avoid overfitting.
Chapter 3, Transforming Numerical Variables, discusses when and why you need to transform variables
for use in machine learning models. Then, it shows you different variable transformation functions
and highlights which types of variables each function is best suited for. By the end of this chapter,
you'll understand when you need to transform your variables and why you apply the logarithm or
the square root, among other functions.
Chapter 4, Performing Variable Discretization, introduces the concept of discretization, highlighting
its uses in machine learning. The chapter then explores various discretization methods, detailing
their advantages and limitations. It covers the basic equal-with and equal-frequency discretization
procedures, as well as discretization using decision trees and k-means. Finally, it pairs discretization
with encoding to return variables that are monotonic with the target.
Chapter 5, Working with Outliers, presents methods to identify outliers and understand their
characteristics. It then discusses techniques to remove outliers or adjust their values to fit within
accepted boundaries, utilizing pandas and Feature-engine.
Chapter 6, Extracting Features from Date and Time Variables, describes how to create features from
dates and time variables. It covers how to extract date and time components from features, as well as
how to combine datetime variables and how to work with different time zones.
Chapter 7, Performing Feature Scaling, covers methods to put the variables on a similar scale. It
discusses standardization, how to scale to maximum and minimum values, and how to perform
more robust forms of variable scaling. You'll also find guidelines about which method to use, based
on your model and variables.
Chapter 8, Creating New Features, describes various methods to combine existing variables to generate
new features. It shows the use of mathematical operations to combine features based on domain
knowledge. Then, it discusses how to transform features through the sine, cosine, and the use of splines.
Finally, it shows you the value of creating features from one or more variables through decision trees.
Chapter 9, Extracting Features from Relational Data with Featuretools, introduces relational datasets
and then moves on to explain how we can create features at different data aggregation levels, utilizing
Featuretools. You will learn how to automatically create dozens of features from numerical and
categorical variables, datetime, and text.
Chapter 10, Creating Features from a Time Series with tsfresh, discusses how to automatically create
hundreds of features from time series data for use in supervised classification or regression. You'll
leverage the power of tsfresh to automatically create and select relevant features from your time series.
