4
Performing Variable
Discretization
Discretization is the process of transforming continuous variables into discrete features by creating a
set of contiguous intervals, also called bins, which span the range of the variable values. Subsequently,
these intervals are treated as categorical data.
Many machine learning models, such as decision trees and Naïve Bayes, work better with discrete
attributes. In fact, decision tree-based models make decisions based on discrete partitions over the
attributes. During induction, a decision tree evaluates all possible feature values to find the best
cut-point. Therefore, the more values the feature has, the longer the induction time of the tree is. In
this sense, discretization can reduce the time it takes to train the models.
Discretization has additional advantages. Data is reduced and simplified; discrete features can be easier
to understand by domain experts. Discretization can change the distribution of skewed variables; when
sorting observations across bins with equal-frequency, the values are spread more homogeneously
across the range. Additionally, discretization can minimize the influence of outliers by placing them
at lower or higher intervals, together with the remaining inlier values of the distribution. Overall,
discretization reduces and simplifies data, making the learning process faster and potentially yielding
more accurate results.
Discretization can also lead to a loss of information, for example, by combining values that are
strongly associated with different classes or target values into the same bin. Therefore, the aim of a
discretization algorithm is to find the minimal number of intervals without incurring a significant loss
of information. In practice, many discretization procedures require the user to input the number of
intervals into which the values will be sorted. Then, the job of the algorithm is to find the cut points
for those intervals. Among these procedures, we find the most widely used equal-width and equalfrequency discretization methods. Discretization methods based on decision trees are, otherwise, able
to find the optimal number of partitions, as well as the cut points.
