Creating periodic features from cyclical variables
253
With fit(), DecisionTreeFeatures() finds the feature combinations and trains the decision
trees. With transform(), DecisionTreeFeatures() adds the features resulting from the
decision trees to the DataFrame.
Note
If you are training regression or multi-class classification, the new features will be either the
prediction of the continuous target or the class. If you are training a binary classification model,
the new features will result from the probability of class 1.
After adding the new features, we compared their relationship to the target by analyzing Pearson's
correlation coefficient, which returned a measure of linear association. We saw that the features derived
from trees had a greater correlation coefficient.
See also
If you want to know more about what mutual information is and how to calculate it, check out this
article: https://www.blog.trainindata.com/mutual-information-with-python/.
Creating periodic features from cyclical variables
Some features are periodic - for example, the hours in a day, the months in a year, and the days in a
week. They all start at a certain value (say, January), go up to a certain other value (say, December),
and then start over from the beginning. Some features are numeric, such as the hours, and some can be
represented with numbers, such as the months, with values of 1 to 12. Yet, this numeric representation
does not capture the periodicity or cyclical nature of the variable. For example, December (12) is closer
to January (1) than June (6); however, this relationship is not captured by the numerical representation
of the feature. But we could change it if we transformed these variables with the sine and cosine, two
naturally periodic functions.
Encoding cyclical features with the sine and cosine functions allows linear models to leverage the
cyclical nature of features and reduce their modeling error. In this recipe, we will create new features
from periodic variables that capture the cyclical nature of time.
Getting ready
Trigonometric functions, such as sine and cosine, are periodic, with values cycling between -1 and 1
every 2π cycles, as shown here:
