ISBN:  978-1-098-17650-1
US $79.99	   CAN $99.99
DATA
Generative AI has revolutionized how organizations tackle problems, accelerating the journey from 
concept to prototype to solution. As the models become increasingly capable, we have witnessed a new 
design pattern emerge: AI agents. By combining tools, knowledge, memory, and learning with advanced 
foundation models, we can now sequence multiple model inferences together to solve ambiguous and 
difficult problems. From coding agents to research agents to analyst agents and more, we’ve already 
seen agents accelerate teams and organizations. While these agents enhance efficiency, they often require 
extensive planning, drafting, and revising to complete complex tasks, and deploying them remains a 
challenge for many organizations, especially as technology and research rapidly develops.
This book is your indispensable guide through this intricate and fast-moving landscape. Author Michael 
Albada provides a practical and research-based approach to designing and implementing single- and 
multiagent systems. It simplifies the complexities and equips you with the tools to move from concept 
to solution efficiently.
•	 Understand the distinct features of 
foundation model-enabled AI agents
•	 Discover the core components and design 
principles of AI agents
•	 Explore design trade-offs and implement 
effective multiagent systems
•	 Design and deploy tailored AI solutions, 
enhancing efficiency and innovation 
in your field
Michael Albada is a seasoned 
machine learning engineer with 
expertise in deploying large-scale 
solutions for major tech firms 
including Uber, ServiceNow, and 
Microsoft. He holds degrees from 
Stanford University, the University 
of Cambridge, and Georgia Tech, 
specializing in machine learning.
Building Applications with AI Agents
“The best single-volume introduction to building AI agent systems—you can read 
hundreds of papers or this one book.”
Arun Rao
Ex-Meta GenAI group, adjunct professor at UCLA
