Local Tools
These tools are designed to run locally. They are often based on predefined rules and
logic, tailored to specific tasks. These local tools can be easily built and modified, and
are co-deployed with the agent. They can especially augment weaknesses in language
models that traditional programming techniques perform better at, such as arith‐
metic, time-zone conversions, calendar operations, or interactions with maps. These
local tools offer precision, predictability, and simplicity. As the logic is explicitly
defined, local tools tend to be predictable and reliable.
The metadata—the tool’s name, description, and schema—is just as critical as its
logic. The model uses that metadata to decide which tool to invoke. Therefore, the
following is important:
• Choose precise, narrowly scoped names. If your name is too general, the LLM
may call it when it’s not needed.
• Write clear, distinctive descriptions. Overly broad or overlapping descriptions
across multiple tools guarantee confusion and poor performance.
• Define strict input/output schemas. Explicit schemas help the foundation model
understand exactly when and how to use the tool, reducing misfires.
Despite these benefits, local tools have some important drawbacks:
Scalability
Designing, building, and deploying local tools can be cumbersome, time-
consuming, and challenging, and local tools are harder to share across use cases.
While tools can be exposed as libraries and shared across multiple agent use
cases, this can be challenging in practice and at scale.
Duplication
Every team or agent deployment that wants to use local tools will need to deploy
the same library along with their agent service, and pushing changes to these
tools will require coordinating deployments to each agent service that uses these
tools. In practice, many teams simply reimplement the same tools independently
to avoid the coordination overhead.
Maintenance
As the environment or requirements change, handcrafted tools may need fre‐
quent updates and adjustments. This ongoing maintenance can be resource-
intensive and typically requires a redeployment of your agent service.
Despite these drawbacks, manually crafted tools are especially useful in addressing
areas of traditional weakness for foundation models. Simple mathematical operations
are a great example of this. Unit conversions, calculator operations, calendar changes,
operations on dates and times, and operations over maps and graphs, for example,
LangChain Fundamentals 
| 
73
