   print(f’{tool_msg.name} {tool_call['args']} {tool_msg.content}’)
   messages.append(tool_msg)
   final_response = llm_with_tools.invoke(messages)
   print(final_response.content)
With those added print statements for visibility, we can see that the foundation model
invokes two function calls—one each for multiply and add:
multiply {'x': 393, 'y': 12.25} Result: 4814.25
add {'x': 11, 'y': 49} 60.0
The model will then include this result from the tool call in the generated final
response, producing a result such as:
393 times 12.25 is 4814.25, and 11 + 49 is 60.
While the effect of this is simple, the implications are profound. The foundation
model is now able to execute the computer programs that we bind with it. This is a
simple example, but we can bind arbitrarily useful and consequential programs to the
foundation model, and we now rely on the foundation model to choose which pro‐
grams to execute with which parameters. Doing so responsibly, and only binding
tools that the foundation model will execute in ways that produce more good than
harm, is among the paramount responsibilities of developers building agents and
agentic systems.
API-Based Tools
API-based tools enable autonomous agents to interact with external services, enhanc‐
ing their capabilities by accessing additional information, processing data, and exe‐
cuting actions that are not feasible to perform locally. These tools leverage application
programming interfaces (APIs) to communicate with public or private services, pro‐
viding a dynamic and scalable way to extend the functionality of an agent.
API-based tools are particularly valuable in scenarios where the agent needs to inte‐
grate with various external systems, retrieve real-time data, or perform complex com‐
putations that would be too resource-intensive to handle internally. By connecting to
APIs, agents can access a vast array of services, such as weather information, stock
market data, translation services, and more, enabling them to provide richer and
more accurate responses to user queries. These API-based tools have multiple
benefits.
By leveraging external services, these tools can dramatically expand the range of tasks
an agent can perform. For instance, an agent can use a weather API to provide cur‐
rent weather conditions and forecasts, a financial API to fetch stock prices, or a trans‐
lation API to offer multilingual support. This ability to integrate diverse external
services greatly broadens the agent’s functionality, all without having to retrain a
model.
LangChain Fundamentals 
| 
75
