   print(tool_msg.content)
   messages.append(tool_msg)
   print()
final_response = llm_with_tools.invoke(messages)
print(final_response.content)
Similar tools can be created to search across team- or company-specific information.
By providing your agent with the tools necessary to access the information it needs to
handle a task, and the specific tools to operate over that information, you can signifi‐
cantly expand the scope and complexity of tasks that can be automated.
When designing API tools for agents, focus on reliability, security, and graceful fail‐
ure. External services can go down, so agents need fallbacks or clear error messages.
Secure all communications with HTTPS and strong authentication, especially for sen‐
sitive data.
Watch out for API rate limits to avoid disruptions, and ensure compliance with data
privacy laws—anonymize or obfuscate user data when needed. Handle errors robustly
so the agent can recover from network issues or invalid responses without breaking
the user experience. When possible, consider alternatives and multiple providers for
greater reliability if any given provider is degraded.
APIs empower agents with real-time data, heavy computation, and external actions
they couldn’t perform alone, making them far more capable and effective.
Plug-In Tools
These tools are modular and can be integrated into the AI agent’s framework with
minimal customization. They leverage existing libraries, APIs, and third-party serv‐
ices to extend the agent’s capabilities without extensive development effort. Plug-in
tools enable rapid deployment and scaling of the agent’s functionalities. These tools
are predesigned modules that can be integrated into an AI system with minimal
effort, leveraging existing libraries, APIs, and third-party services. The integration of
plug-in tools has become a standard offering from leading platforms such as OpenAI,
Anthropic’s Claude, Google’s Gemini, and Microsoft’s Phi as well as a growing open
source community. Plug-in tools provide powerful tools to expand the capabilities of
AI agents without extensive custom development.
OpenAI’s plug-ins ecosystem offers powerful extensions—everything from real-time
web search to specialized code generators—but they’re only available inside the
ChatGPT product, not the public API. You cannot invoke Expedia, Zapier, or any
first-party ChatGPT plug-in through the standard OpenAI Completions or Chat
endpoints. To replicate similar behavior in your own applications, you must build
custom function-calling layers (for example, via LangChain) that approximate plug-
in functionality.
78 
| 
Chapter 4: Tool Use
