1 Shengran Hu et al., “Automated Design of Agentic Systems”, paper presented at the International Conference
on Learning Representations, Singapore, April 2025.
   g = StateGraph(AgentState)
   g.add_node("actor", actor_node)
   g.add_node("critic", critic_node)
  
   g.set_entry_point("actor")
   g.add_edge("actor", "critic")
   # Loop back if not approved (conditional)
   g.add_conditional_edges("critic", lambda s: "actor" 
    if "regenerate" in s["messages"][-1].content.lower() else 
    END)
  
   return g.compile()
Actor-critic setups are particularly useful when evaluation is easier than generation. If
you can reliably say “This is a good output,” but can’t easily produce it on the first try,
then a simple actor-critic loop can be a powerful tool—no learning required. As an
easy strategy to implement, it is often worth trying when a performance boost is
worth the additional computational cost.
Automated Design of Agent Systems
Automated Design of Agentic Systems (ADAS) represents a transformative approach
to agent development, shifting away from handcrafted architectures and toward sys‐
tems that can design, evaluate, and iteratively improve themselves. As articulated by
Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune in their 2024 original paper,1 the central idea
of ADAS is that, rather than manually constructing each component of an agent, we
can enable a higher-level Meta Agent Search (MAS) algorithm to automatically cre‐
ate, assess, and refine agentic systems. This approach opens up a new research fron‐
tier—one that could enable agents to adapt to complex, shifting environments and
continually improve their own capabilities without direct human intervention. As
Figure 8-1 shows, ADAS builds on the idea that, historically, hand-designed solutions
in machine learning (ML) have often been replaced by learned or automated alterna‐
tives, suggesting that agentic systems, too, may benefit from this transition.
In ADAS, foundation models serve as flexible, general-purpose modules within an
agent’s architecture. These models, which already power strategies such as chain-of-
thought reasoning, self-reflection, and Toolformer-based agents, form a base upon
which more specialized or task-specific capabilities can be layered. However, ADAS
seeks to advance beyond these traditional approaches by enabling agents to invent
entirely new structures and modules autonomously. The versatility of foundation
models provides an ideal starting point, but ADAS leverages automated processes to
184 
| 
Chapter 8: From One Agent to Many
