About the Author
Michael Albada is a machine learning engineer with nine years of experience design‐
ing, building, and deploying large-scale machine learning solutions at Microsoft,
Uber, and ServiceNow, with expertise in large language models, reasoning models,
fine-tuning, recommendation systems, geospatial modeling, cybersecurity, and the
development of large scale multiagent systems for cybersecurity. He received his B.A.
from Stanford University, M.Phil. from the University of Cambridge, and M.S. from
Georgia Tech. Depending on the season, you can find him on a bike, skis, or
kiteboard.
Colophon
The animal on the cover of Building Applications with AI Agents is the northern pig-
tailed macaque (Macaca leonina). The northern pig-tailed macaque was originally a
subspecies of the southern pig-tailed macaque but is now a separate species due to
differences in genetics, physical traits, and geographic distribution. They can be
found in parts of South and Southeast Asia, including northeastern India, Bangla‐
desh, Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam. They are mainly frugivo‐
rous feeders (they eat mostly fruits); however, they also eat seeds, leaves,
invertebrates, and even small vertebrates.
Known and named for its distinctive short, curled tail that resembles a pig’s, the
northern pig-tailed macaque is typically light brown or grayish with a pale belly, and
individuals have a characteristic pink face that darkens with age. They also have a red
stripe on their face, beginning at the outer corners of both eyes and extending diago‐
nally toward the sides of the face. Males are significantly larger than females, weigh‐
ing around 18 pounds while females average closer to 13.
Northern pig-tailed macaques are social creatures, often traveling in large hierarchi‐
cal packs of males and females—along with their offspring—but breaking into
smaller groups when feeding. Female macaques remain in their birth group for life,
often forming close bonds with the other females in their line, while males usually
leave upon reaching maturity. They communicate using a variety of gestures and
vocalizations, with facial expressions being the most important.
The cover illustration is by José Marzan Jr. based on an antique line engraving from
Lydekker’s Royal Natural History. The series design is by Edie Freedman, Ellie Volck‐
hausen, and Karen Montgomery. The cover fonts are Gilroy Semibold and Guardian
Sans. The text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Con‐
densed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.
