Building Intelligent RAG Systems
154
            "explanation": "This claim is fully supported by the provided 
context."
        }
    ],
    "fully_grounded": false,
    "issues_identified": ["The answer contains incorrect information about 
the introduction of the transformer architecture and its use of recurrent 
neural networks."]
}
Based on the verification result, you can:
1.	
Regenerate the answer if issues are found
2.	 Add qualifying statements to indicate uncertainty
3.	
Filter out unsupported claims
4.	
Include confidence indicators for different parts of the response
This approach systematically analyzes generated responses against source documents, identify­
ing specific unsupported claims rather than just providing a binary assessment. For each factual 
assertion, it determines whether it’s fully supported, partially supported, contradicted, or not 
mentioned in the context.
Self-consistency checking is essential for applications where trustworthiness is paramount, such 
as medical information, financial advice, or educational content. Detecting and addressing hal­
lucinations before they reach users significantly improves the reliability of RAG systems.
The verification can be further enhanced by:
1.	
Granular claim extraction: Breaking down complex responses into atomic factual claims
2.	
Evidence linking: Explicitly connecting each claim to specific supporting text
3.	
Confidence scoring: Assigning numerical confidence scores to different parts of the re­
sponse
4.	
Selective regeneration: Regenerating only the unsupported portions of responses
These techniques create a verification layer that substantially reduces the risk of presenting in­
correct information to users while maintaining the fluency and coherence of generated responses.
While the techniques we’ve discussed enhance individual components of the RAG pipeline, cor­
rective RAG represents a more holistic approach that addresses fundamental retrieval quality 
issues at a systemic level.
