Chapter 6
241
We have omitted the full output here (you’re welcome to take the code from our GitHub repository 
and experiment with it yourself), but the first answer was wrong:
Based on the DuckDuckGo search results, none of the provided statements 
are entirely true.  The searches reveal that while there has been 
significant progress in women's labor force participation globally,  it 
hasn't reached a point where most women work in agriculture, nor has there 
been a worldwide decline in participation.  Furthermore, the information 
about working hours suggests that it's not universally true that women 
work longer hours than men in most regions. Therefore, there is no correct 
answer among the options provided.
After five iterations, the weaker LLM was able to figure out the correct answer (keep in mind 
that the “professor” only evaluated the reasoning itself and it didn’t use external tools or its own 
knowledge). Note that, technically speaking, we implemented cross-reflection and not self-re­
flection (since we’ve used a different LLM for reflection than the one we used for the reasoning). 
Here’s an example of the feedback provided during the first round:
The student's reasoning relies on outside search results which are not 
provided, making it difficult to assess the accuracy of their claims. The 
student states that none of the answers are entirely true, but multiple-
choice questions often have one best answer even if it requires nuance. To 
properly evaluate the answer, the search results need to be provided, and 
each option should be evaluated against those results to identify the most 
accurate choice, rather than dismissing them all. It is possible one of 
the options is more correct than the others, even if not perfectly true. 
Without the search results, it's impossible to determine if the student's 
conclusion that no answer is correct is valid. Additionally, the student 
should explicitly state what the search results were.
Next, let’s discuss an alternative communication style for a multi-agent setup, via a shared list of 
messages. But before that, we should discuss the LangGraph handoff mechanism and dive into 
some details of streaming with LangGraph.
LangGraph streaming
LangGraph streaming might sometimes be a source of confusion. Each graph has not only a 
stream and a corresponding asynchronous astream method, but also an astream_events. Let’s 
dive into the difference.
