Preface
When I first started connecting language models, tools, orchestration, and memory
together into what we now call an agent, I was surprised by how capable this design
pattern was, and just how much confusion there was about this topic. During my
time building agents and sharing my findings on incident investigation, threat hunt‐
ing, vulnerability detection, and more, I found that this latest design pattern enabled
us to solve whole new classes of problems, but also came with many practical hurdles
to making them reliable for real-world applications. Engineers, scientists, product
managers, and leadership all wanted to know more. "How do I get my agent to
work?" "I can get my agent to work some of the time, but how do I get it to work
most or all of the time?" "How do I choose a model for my use case?" "How do I
design good tools for my agent?" "What kind of memory do I need?" "Should I use
RAG?" "Should I build a single-agent or multiagent system?" "What architecture
should I use?" "Do I need to fine-tune?" "How do I enable agents to learn from expe‐
rience and improve over time?"
While there are many blog posts and research papers that focus on specific aspects of
the topic of designing agent systems, I realized there were a lack of accessible, holistic,
trustworthy guides for this. I couldn't find the book that I wanted to share with my
colleagues, so I set out to write it.
Through in-depth discussions, I've helped teams navigate the complexities of AI
agents, considering their unique goals, constraints, and environments. AI agent sys‐
tems are intricate, blending autonomy, decision making, and interaction in ways that
traditional software doesn't. They're data-driven, adaptive, and involve multiple com‐
ponents like perception, reasoning, action, and learning, all while interfacing with
users, tools, and other agents. Complicating matters, the foundation models that
power these agents are probabilistic and stochastic by nature, making evaluation and
testing more challenging.
This book takes a comprehensive approach to building applications with AI agents. It
covers the entire lifecycle, from conceptualization to deployment and maintenance,
xiii
