We have a web page for this book, where we list errata and any additional informa‐
tion. You can access this page at https://oreil.ly/building-applications-with-ai-agents-1e.
For news and information about our books and courses, visit https://oreilly.com.
Find us on LinkedIn: https://linkedin.com/company/oreilly-media
Watch us on YouTube: https://youtube.com/oreillymedia
Acknowledgments
As a first-time author, it's humbling to discover just how many people it takes to write
a book, and it's thanks to the contributions of many wonderful people that this book
has come to fruition.
This book took over a year to write, and I'm especially grateful to the technical
reviewers who carved out their valuable time to share their detailed feedback, per‐
spective, and insight. Nuno Campos has brought invaluable expertise on all things
agents and LangChain and pointed me to concepts I had missed. Prashanth Josyula
held the writing and the code examples to a high bar of technical rigor and brought
deep technical expertise. Megan MacLennan has been my technical writing expert,
helping ensure accessibility and relevance to a wide audience. Early drafts are always
imperfect, and I'm deeply grateful to my technical reviewers for tolerating my blun‐
ders and oversights with grace. Thank you for all of your patience and your invalua‐
ble suggestions.
I also want to offer a special thanks to Anthony Wainman, who has been a thought
partner from the earliest stages of this book, and offered invaluable guidance on the
structure, content, examples, and so much more.
This book wouldn't have been possible without the fantastic team at O'Reilly, espe‐
cially my development editor, Shira Evans, who helped shepherd the project. Many
thanks to Melissa Potter for providing early feedback and reviews, and my produc‐
tion editors Ashley Stussy and Gregory Hyman. Nicole Butterfield has been invalua‐
ble in turning concepts into reality.
I also want to thank everyone who read the early release version of the book and
offered suggestions and encouragement, including Tiago Dufau de Vargas, Jenny
Song, Leonidas Askianakis, Karthik Rao, and Drew Hoskins.
I owe so much to my brilliant current and former colleagues at Microsoft, Service‐
Now, and Uber, especially Olcay Cirit, Dawn Woodard, Sameera Poduri, Zoubin
Ghahramani, Piero Molino, Pablo Bellver, Jaikumar Ganesh, Jay Stokes, Marc-
Alexandre Cote, Chi Wang, Anush Sankaran, Amir Abdi, Tong Wang, Antonios Mat‐
akos, Max Golovanov, Abe Starosta, Francis Beckert, Malachi Jones, Taylor Black,
Ryan Sweet, Lital Badash, Amir Pirogovsky, Alexander Stojanovic, Brad Sarsfield,
Preface
|
xix
