With a growing range of protocols such as Model Context Protocol (discussed in
Chapter 4) and Agent-to-Agent Protocol (discussed in Chapter 8), these agents will
be able to use remote tools and collaborate with other agents to solve problems. This
unlocks enormous opportunities for sophisticated automation-but it also brings a
profound responsibility to design, measure, and manage these systems thoughtfully,
ensuring their actions align with human values and operate safely in complex,
dynamic environments.
The Pretraining Revolution
While traditional ML is an incredibly powerful technique, it is usually limited by the
quantity and quality of the dataset. ML practitioners will typically tell you that they
spend the majority of their time not training models, but on collecting and cleaning
datasets that they can use for training. The incredible success of generative models
that have been trained on large volumes of data have shown that single models can
now adapt to a wide range of tasks without any additional training. This upends years
of practice. To build an application that used ML previously required hiring an ML
engineer or data scientist, having them collect data, and then deploying that model.
With the latest developments in large, pretrained generative models, high-quality
models that will work reasonably well for many use cases are now available through a
single call to a hosted model without any training or hosting required. This dramati‐
cally lowers the cost and complexity of building applications enabled with ML
and AI.
Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-5, Anthropic's
Claude, Meta's Llama, Google's Gemini Ultra, and DeepSeek's V3 have increased the
performance on a range of difficult tasks even further, widening the scope of prob‐
lems solvable with pretrained models. These foundation models offer robust natural
language understanding and content generation capabilities, enhancing agent func‐
tionality through:
Natural language understanding
Interpreting and responding intuitively to user inputs
Context-aware interaction
Maintaining context for relevant and accurate responses over extended
interactions
Structured content generation
Producing text, code, and structured outputs essential for analytical and creative
tasks
While these models are very capable on their own, they can also be used to make
decisions within well-scoped areas, adapt to new information, and invoke tools to
accomplish real work. Integration with sophisticated orchestration frameworks
2
|
Chapter 1: Introduction to Agents
