training, customer onboarding, marketing, and virtual presence tools-enabling
scalable, personalized video interactions without manual production.
Importantly, the number and variety of agent types is growing rapidly, and we will
likely see new kinds of agents emerge across many domains as the field and its under‐
lying technologies evolve. In this book, our emphasis is on the core category of agents
built around language models, particularly those using text and code. While we touch
on business‑task automation, voice, and video, we'll primarily explore agents built
around language models-their architectures, reasoning, and UX-in subsequent
chapters.
Now that we've discussed the evolving types of agents, the next critical question
becomes: which model should you choose to power your agent? Model selection is a
complex and rapidly changing domain. As discussed in the next section, you'll need
to balance factors like task complexity, modality support, latency and cost constraints,
and integration requirements to make the right choice for your agent.
Model Selection
Today, we are fortunate to have a proliferation of powerful models available from
both commercial providers and the open source community. OpenAI, Anthropic,
Google, Meta, and DeepSeek each offer state-of-the-art foundation models with
impressive general-purpose capabilities. At the same time, open-weight models like
Llama, Mistral, and Gemma are pushing the boundaries of what can be achieved with
local or fine-tuned deployments. Even more striking is the rapid advancement of
small- and medium-sized models. New techniques for distillation, quantization, and
synthetic data generation are enabling compact models to inherit surprising levels of
capability from their larger counterparts.
This explosion of choice is good news: competition is driving faster innovation, better
performance, and lower costs. But it also creates a dilemma-how do you choose the
right model for your agentic system? The truth is, there isn't a one-size-fits-all answer.
In fact, one of the most reasonable starting points is simply to use the latest generalpurpose model from a leading provider like OpenAI or Anthropic. As you can see in
Table 1-1, these models offer strong performance out of the box, require little cus‐
tomization, and will take you surprisingly far for many applications. GPT-5 mini
(Aug 2025) leads overall with the highest mean score (0.819), closely followed by o4-
mini (0.812) and o3 (0.811). Proprietary and open-access models like Qwen3, Grok 4,
Claude 4, and Kimi K2 also show competitive results.
Model Selection
|
5
