7. Integration and validation
Once the graph is populated, it must be integrated with existing systems and vali‐
dated to ensure accuracy and utility. This can involve linking data from other
databases, resolving entity duplication (entity resolution), and verifying that the
graph accurately represents the knowledge domain. Validation might involve
user testing or automated checks to ensure the integrity and usability of the
graph.
8. Maintenance and updates
A knowledge graph is not a static entity; it needs regular updates and mainte‐
nance to stay relevant. This involves adding new data, updating existing informa‐
tion, and refining the ontology as new types of entities or relationships are
identified. Automation and ML models can be instrumental in maintaining and
updating the knowledge graph efficiently.
Building a knowledge graph can significantly improve complex and multihop
retrieval. Typically, this is conducted by extracting semantic triples based on the
Resource Description Framework data model. This consists of subject-predicateobject expressions. Foundation models are quite good at extracting these triples, so
these types of knowledge graphs can now be constructed at scale. You can see this
process visualized in Figure 6-3.
Figure 6-3. Knowledge graph construction workflow. Documents are processed by a
model to extract semantic triples in the form of subject-relation-object statements (e.g.,
"Jay-Z, spouse of, Beyoncé"), which are then structured into a knowledge graph to enable
efficient semantic querying and reasoning.
To make it even more approachable, building a basic GraphRAG pipeline today is
surprisingly straightforward thanks to open source tooling. Microsoft's own Graph‐
RAG library, available via pip install graphrag, offers a command‑line workflow
for indexing and querying document collections-no extensive setup required. For
instance, after initializing your project and indexing using their CLI, you can run:
pip install graphrag
mkdir -p ./ragtest/input
curl https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/103.txt.utf-8 -o ./ragtest/input/book.txt
 ./ragtest/input/book.txt
126
|
Chapter 6: Knowledge and Memory
