graphrag init --root ./ragtest
graphrag index --root ./ragtest
graphrag query \
--root ./ragtest \
--method global \
--query "What are the key themes in this novel?"
graphrag query \
--root ./ragtest \
--method local \
--query "Who is Phileas Fogg and what motivates his journey?"
This instantly gives you global insights and local context over your texts-without
writing a single line of Python. If you prefer more control, the Neo4j GraphRAG
Python package lets you set up a full GraphRAG pipeline in code. With a few lines
(connecting to Neo4j, defining an embedder and retriever, then querying), you get
powerful graph‑enhanced RAG capabilities. For developers interested in lightweight
or educational implementations, there are smaller community projects like
nano‑graphrag and example repos (e.g., example‑graphrag) that unpack the core pipe‐
line in a few hundred lines of Python.
While this is great for experimentation, many teams want to move from a prototype
to a hardened, scalable system. That's where Neo4j shines: it's the most trusted,
enterprise-grade graph database available. Its native graph storage and index‑free
adjacency architecture ensures near-constant traversal performance-even as the
graph scales to billions of nodes and relationships. Production deployments often use
Neo4j Enterprise or AuraDB, offering clustering, fault-tolerance, ACID (atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability) compliance, and multiregion support. Once
you've used the Neo4j GraphRAG Python tooling or Cypher-based setup to extract
entities and define relationships, there's a smooth path to a scalable deployment:
• Populate at scale via Cypher: use CREATE and MERGE statements to build clean,
deduplicated graphs.
• Incremental loading logic ensures you can update with new data without
duplication.
• Scale performance through Neo4j's read/write clustering, cache sharding, and
optimized query planner.
In short, Neo4j makes transitioning from notebook prototypes to production-grade
graph-backed RAG pipelines straightforward-without sacrificing performance, reli‐
ability, or maintainability.
Once you've defined your ontology and extracted entities and relationships, it's time
to populate your knowledge graph. In Neo4j, this is done using the Cypher CREATE
GraphRAG
|
127
