Using power transformations
99
Note
The transformer automatically identifies the numerical variables, which we can explore by 
executing root_t.variables_.
12.	 Finally, let’s transform the data:
df_tf = root_t.transform(df)
PowerTransformer() returns a pandas DataFrame with the transformed variables.
How it works…
In this recipe, we applied the square root transformation using NumPy, scikit-learn, and Feature-engine.
We used NumPy’s sqrt() function either directly or within scikit-learn’s FunctionTrasnformer() 
to determine the variables’ square root. Alternatively, we used Feature-engine’s PowerTransformer(), 
setting the exponent to 0.5, that of the square root function. NumPy modified the variables directly. 
The transformers of scikit-learn and Feature-engine modified the variables when calling the 
transform() method.
Using power transformations
Power functions are mathematical transformations that follow the ​X​ t​ = ​X​ lambda​ format, where lambda can 
take any value. The square and cube root transformations are special cases of power transformations 
where lambda is 1/2 or 1/3, respectively. The challenge resides in finding the value for the lambda 
parameter. The Box-Cox transformation, which is a generalization of the power transformations, finds 
the optimal lambda  value via maximum likelihood. We will discuss the Box-Cox transformation in 
the following recipe. In practice, we will try different lambda values and visually inspect the variable 
distribution to determine which one offers the best transformation. In general, if the data is right-
skewed – that is, if observations accumulate toward lower values – we use a lambda value that is 
smaller than 1, while if the data is left-skewed – that is, there are more observations around higher 
values – then we use a lambda value that is greater than 1.
In this recipe, we will carry out power transformations using NumPy, scikit-learn, and Feature-engine.
How to do it...
Let’s begin by importing the libraries and getting the dataset ready:
1.	
Import the required Python libraries and classes:
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.datasets import fetch_california_housing
