Creating New Features
230
Technical requirements
In this chapter, we will use the pandas, numpy, matplotlib, scikit-learn, and feature-
engine Python libraries.
Combining features with mathematical functions
New features can be created by combining existing variables with mathematical and statistical functions. 
Taking an example from the finance industry, we can calculate the total debt of a person by summing 
up their debt across individual financial products, such as car loan, mortgage, or credit card debt:
Total debt = car loan debt + credit card debt + mortgage debt
We can also derive other insightful features using alternative statistical operations. For example, we 
can determine the maximum debt of a customer across financial products or the average time a user 
spends on a website:
maximum debt = max(car loan balance, credit card balance, mortgage balance)
average time on website = mean(time spent on homepage, time spent on about page, time spent on 
FAQ page)
We can, in principle, use any mathematical or statistical operation to create new features, such as the 
product, mean, standard deviation, or maximum or minimum values. In this recipe, we will implement 
these mathematical operations using pandas and feature-engine.
Note
While, in the recipe, we can show you how to combine features with mathematical functions, 
we can’t do justice to the use of domain knowledge in deciding which function to apply, as that 
varies with every domain. So, we will leave that with you.
Getting ready
In this recipe, we will use the breast cancer dataset from scikit-learn. The features are computed 
from digitized images of breast cells and describe the characteristics of their cell nuclei, in terms of 
smoothness, concavity, symmetry, and compactness, among others. Each row contains information 
about the morphology of cell nuclei in a tissue sample. The target variable indicates whether the tissue 
sample corresponds to cancerous cells. The idea is to predict whether the tissue samples belong to 
benign or malignant breast cells, based on their cell nuclei morphology.
To become familiar with the dataset, run the following commands in a Jupyter notebook or Python console:
from sklearn.datasets import load_breast_cancer
data = load_breast_cancer()
print(data.DESCR)
