10
Creating Features from a Time 
Series with tsfresh
Throughout this book, we’ve discussed feature engineering methods and tools tailored for tabular 
and relational datasets. In this chapter, we will shift our focus to time-series data. A time series is 
a sequence of observations taken sequentially over time. Examples include energy generation and 
demand, temperature, air pollutant concentration, stock prices, and sales revenue. Each of these 
examples represents a variable and their values change over time.
The widespread availability of affordable sensors capable of measuring motion, movement, humidity, 
glucose, and other parameters has significantly increased the amount of temporally annotated data. 
These time series can be utilized in various classification tasks. For instance, by analyzing the electricity 
usage pattern of a household at a given time interval, we can infer whether a particular appliance was 
being used. Similarly, the signal of an ultrasound sensor can help determine the probability of a (gas) 
pipeline failure, and the characteristics of a sound wavelength can help predict whether a listener will 
like a song. Time-series data is also valuable for regression tasks. For example, signals from machinery 
sensors can be used to predict the remaining useful life of the device.
To use time series with traditional supervised machine learning models, such as linear and logistic 
regression, or decision-tree-based algorithms, we need to map each time series into a well-defined 
feature vector that captures its characteristics. Time-series patterns, including trends, seasonality, and 
periodicity, among other things, can be captured by a combination of simple and complex mathematical 
operations. Simple calculations include, for instance, taking the mean and the standard deviation of 
the time series. More complex methods include determining correlation or entropy, for example. In 
addition, we can apply non-linear time-series analysis functions to decompose the time-series signal, 
for example, Fourier or wavelet transformations, and use the parameters of these functions as features 
of the supervised models.
