Contributors
About the authors
Ben Auffarth, PhD, is an AI implementation expert with more than 15 years of work experience.
As the founder of Chelsea AI Ventures, he specializes in helping small and medium enterprises
implement enterprise-grade AI solutions that deliver tangible ROI. His systems have prevented
millions in fraud losses and process transactions at sub-300ms latency. With a background in com­
putational neuroscience, Ben brings rare depth to practical AI applications-from supercomputing
brain models to production systems that combine technical excellence with business strategy.
First and foremost, I want to thank my co-author, Leo-a superstar coder-who's been patient throughout
and always ready when advice was needed. This book also wouldn't be what it is without the people at Packt,
especially Tanya, our editor, who offered sparks of insight and encouraging words whenever needed. Finally,
the reviewers were very helpful and generous with their critiques, making sure we didn't miss anything. Any
errors or oversights that remain are entirely mine.
Leonid Kuligin is a staff AI engineer at Google Cloud, working on generative AI and classical
machine learning solutions, such as demand forecasting and optimization problems. Leonid is
one of the key maintainers of Google Cloud integrations on LangChain and a visiting lecturer at
CDTM (a joint institution of TUM and LMU). Prior to Google, Leonid gained more than 20 years
of experience building B2C and B2B applications based on complex machine learning and data
processing solutions-such as search, maps, and investment management-in German, Russian,
and U.S. technology, financial, and retail companies.
I want to express my sincere gratitude to all my colleagues at Google with whom I had the pleasure and joy of
working, and who supported me during the creation of this book and many other endeavors. Special thanks
go to Max Tschochohei, Lucio Floretta, and Thomas Cliett. My appreciation also goes to the entire LangChain
community, especially Harrison Chase, whose continuous development of the LangChain framework made
my work as an engineer significantly easier.
