About the reviewers
Max Tschochohei advises enterprise customers on how to realize their AI and ML ambitions
on Google Cloud. As an engineering manager in Google Cloud Consulting, he leads teams of AI
engineers on mission-critical customer projects. While his work spans the full range of AI prod足
ucts and solutions in the Google Cloud portfolio, he is particularly interested in agentic systems,
machine learning operations, and healthcare applications of AI. Before joining Google in Munich,
Max spent several years as a consultant, first with KPMG and later with the Boston Consulting
Group. He also led the digital transformation of NTUC Enterprise, a Singapore government or足
ganization. Max holds a PhD in Economics from Coventry University.
Rany ElHousieny is an AI Solutions Architect and AI Engineering Manager with over two
decades of experience in AI, NLP, and ML. Throughout his career, he has focused on the develop足
ment and deployment of AI models, authoring multiple articles on AI systems architecture and
ethical AI deployment. He has led groundbreaking projects at companies like Microsoft, where he
spearheaded advancements in NLP and the Language Understanding Intelligent Service (LUIS).
Currently, he plays a pivotal role at Clearwater Analytics, driving innovation in generative AI and
AI-driven financial and investment management solutions.
Nicolas Bievre is a Machine Learning Engineer at Meta with extensive experience in AI, recom足
mender systems, LLMs, and generative AI, applied to advertising and healthcare. He has held key
AI leadership roles at Meta and PayPal, designing and implementing large-scale recommender
systems used to personalize content for hundreds of millions of users. He graduated from Stanford
University, where he published peer-reviewed research in leading AI and bioinformatics journals.
Internationally recognized for his contributions, Nicolas has received awards such as the "Core
Ads Growth Privacy" Award and the "Outre-Mer Outstanding Talent" Award. He also serves as
an AI consultant to the French government and as a reviewer for top AI organizations.
