Building Intelligent Agents
216
>> I signed my contract 2 years ago The contract started on 2023-02-07.
I started the deal with your company in February last year The contract
started on 2024-02-01.
Our contract started on March 24th two years ago The contract started on
2023-03-24
We learned how to use tools, or function calls, to enhance LLMs' performance on complex tasks.
This is one of the fundamental architectural patterns behind agents-now it's time to discuss
what an agent is.
What are agents?
Agents are one of the hottest topics of generative AI these days. People talk about agents a lot,
but there are many different definitions of what an agent is. LangChain itself defines an agent
as "a system that uses an LLM to decide the control flow of an application." While we feel it's a great
definition that is worth citing, it missed some aspects.
As Python developers, you might be familiar with duck typing to determine an object's behavior by
the so-called duck test: "If it walks like a duck and it quacks like a duck, then it must be a duck." With
that concept in mind, let's describe some properties of an agent in the context of generative AI:
•
Agents help a user solve complex non-deterministic tasks without being given an explicit
algorithm on how to do it. Advanced agents can even act on behalf of a user.
•
To solve a task, agents typically perform multiple steps and iterations. They reason (gener­
ate new information based on available context), act (interact with the external environ­
ment), observe (incorporate feedback from the external environment), and communicate
(interact and/or work collaboratively with other agents or humans).
•
Agents utilize LLMs for reasoning (and solving tasks).
•
While agents have certain autonomy (and to a certain extent, they even figure out what
is the best way to solve the task by thinking and learning from interacting with the en­
vironment), when running an agent, we'd still like to keep a certain degree of control of
the execution flow.
Retaining control over an agent's behavior-an agentic workflow-is a core concept behind
LangGraph. While LangGraph provides developers with a rich set of building blocks (such as
memory management, tool invocation, and cyclic graphs with recursion depth control), its pri­
mary design pattern focuses on managing the flow and level of autonomy that LLMs exercise in
executing tasks. Let's start with an example and develop our agent.
