Advanced Applications and Multi-Agent Systems
248
We're not going to discuss the LangGraph Server API in this book. Please take a look at the doc­
umentation instead.
Building adaptive systems
Adaptability is a great attribute of agents. They should adapt to external and user feedback and
correct their actions accordingly. As we discussed in Chapter 5, generative AI agents are adaptive
through:
•
Tool interaction: They incorporate feedback from previous tool calls and their outputs
(by including ToolMessages that represent tool-calling results) when planning the next
steps (like our ReACT agent adjusting based on search results).
•
Explicit reflection: They can be instructed to analyze current results and deliberately
adjust their behavior.
•
Human feedback: They can incorporate user input at critical decision points.
Dynamic behavior adjustment
We saw how to add a reflection step to our plan-and-solve agent. Given the initial plan, and the
output of the steps performed so far, we'll ask the LLM to reflect on the plan and adjust it. Again,
we continue reiterating the key idea - such reflection might not happen naturally; you might
add it as a separate task (decomposition), and you keep partial control over the execution flow
by designing its generic components.
Human-in-the-loop
Additionally, when developing agents with complex reasoning trajectories, it might be beneficial
to incorporate human feedback at a certain point. An agent can ask a human to approve or reject
certain actions (for example, when it's invoking a tool that is irreversible, like a tool that makes
a payment), provide additional context to the agent, or give a specific input by modifying the
graph's state.
Imagine we're developing an agent that searches for job postings, generates an application, and
sends this application. We might want to ask the user before submitting an application, or the
logic might be more complex - the agent might be collecting data about the user, and for some
job postings, it might be missing relevant context about past job experience. It should ask the
user and persist this knowledge in long-term memory for better long-term adaptation.
