Chapter 7
297
The transformation brought by LLMs enables both technical and non-technical stakeholders to
interact with data effectively. Its primary value lies in reducing the cognitive load associated with
repetitive coding tasks, allowing data scientists to maintain the flow and focus on higher-level
analytical challenges. However, rigorous validation remains essential-independent studies
consistently identify concerns regarding code quality, security, and maintainability. These consid足
erations are especially critical in two key workflows that LangChain has revolutionized: training
ML models and analyzing datasets.
When training ML models, LLMs can now generate synthetic training data, assist in feature engi足
neering, and automatically tune hyperparameters-dramatically reducing the expertise barrier
for model development. Moreover, for data analysis, LLMs serve as intelligent interfaces that
translate natural language questions into code, visualizations, and insights, allowing domain
experts to extract value from data without deep programming knowledge. The following sections
explore both of these areas with LangChain.
Training an ML model
As you know by now, LangChain agents can write and execute Python code for data science tasks,
including building and training ML models. This capability is particularly valuable when you
need to perform complex data analysis, create visualizations, or implement custom algorithms
on the fly without switching contexts.
In this section, we'll explore how to create and use Python-capable agents through two main
steps: setting up the Python agent environment and configuring the agent with the right model
and tools; and implementing a neural network from scratch, guiding the agent to create a com足
plete working model.
Setting up a Python-capable agent
Let's start by creating a Python-capable agent using LangChain's experimental tools:
from langchain_experimental.agents.agent_toolkits.python.base import cre足
ate_python_agent
from langchain_experimental.tools.python.tool import PythonREPLTool
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic
from langchain.agents.agent_types import AgentType
agent_executor = create_python_agent(
    llm=ChatAnthropic(model='claude-3-opus-20240229'),
    tool=PythonREPLTool(),
