Chapter 8
329
    "criteria", criteria=custom_friendliness, llm=evaluation_llm
)
friendliness_result = friendliness_evaluator.evaluate_strings(
    prediction=prediction_health, input=prompt_health
)
print("Friendliness evaluation result:", friendliness_result)
The evaluator should return whether the tone is friendly (Y/N) along with reasoning. In fact, this
is what we get:
Friendliness evaluation result: {'reasoning': "The criterion is to assess
whether the response is written in a friendly and approachable tone.
The submission provides the information in a straightforward manner and
ends with a suggestion to follow doctor's advice for personal health
management. This suggestion can be seen as a friendly advice, showing
concern for the reader's health. Therefore, the submission can be
considered as written in a friendly and approachable tone.\n\nY", 'value':
'Y', 'score': 1}
This evaluation approach is particularly valuable for applications in healthcare, customer service,
and educational domains where the manner of communication is as important as the factual
content. The explicit reasoning provided by the evaluator helps development teams understand
exactly which elements of the response contribute to its tone, making it easier to debug and im­
prove response generation. While binary Y/N scores are useful for automated quality gates, the
detailed reasoning offers more nuanced insights for continuous improvement. For production
systems, consider combining multiple criteria evaluators to create a comprehensive quality score
that reflects all aspects of your application's communication requirements.
Evaluating the output format
When working with LLMs to generate structured data like JSON, XML, or CSV, format validation
becomes critical. Financial applications, reporting tools, and API integrations often depend on
correctly formatted data structures. A technically perfect response that fails to adhere to the
expected format can break downstream systems. LangChain provides specialized evaluators for
validating structured outputs, as demonstrated in the following example using JSON validation
for a financial report:
from langchain.evaluation import JsonValidityEvaluator
# Initialize the JSON validity evaluator.
