Evaluation and Testing
338
            "documents": ["Investment strategy comparisons", "Market
timing research"]
        }
    },
    # Additional examples would be added here
]
This dataset structure serves multiple evaluation purposes. First, it identifies specific documents
that should be retrieved, allowing evaluation of retrieval accuracy. It then defines key points that
should appear in the response, enabling assessment of information extraction. Finally, it connects
each example to testing objectives, making it easier to diagnose specific system capabilities.
When implementing this dataset in practice, organizations typically load these examples into
evaluation platforms like LangSmith, allowing automated testing of their RAG systems. The re­
sults reveal specific patterns in system performance-perhaps strong retrieval but weak synthesis,
or excellent performance on simple factual questions but struggles with complex perspective
inquiries.
However, implementing effective RAG evaluation goes beyond simply creating datasets; it requires
using diagnostic tools to pinpoint exactly where failures occur within the system pipeline. Draw­
ing on research, these diagnostics identify specific failure modes, such as poor document ranking
(information exists but isn't prioritized) or poor context utilization (the agent ignores relevant
retrieved documents). By diagnosing these issues, organizations gain actionable insights-for
instance, consistent ranking failures might suggest implementing hybrid search, while context
utilization problems could lead to refined prompting or structured outputs.
The ultimate goal of RAG evaluation is to drive continuous improvement. Organizations achieving
the most success follow an iterative cycle: running comprehensive diagnostics to find specific
failure patterns, prioritizing fixes based on their frequency and impact, implementing targeted
changes, and then re-evaluating to measure the improvement. By systematically diagnosing is­
sues and using those insights to iterate, teams can build more accurate and reliable RAG systems
with fewer common errors.
In the next section, we'll see how we can use LangSmith, a companion project for LangChain, to
benchmark and evaluate our system's performance on a dataset. Let's step through an example!
